hardware/esp32/README.md, before:

# TrailSense - Hardware Code

This part of the codebase contains all of the code that is necessary to measure the amount of users that access a specific trail.
To do this both WiFi Probe Request Sniffing and BLE Advertisement Scanning is being used for crowd counting. The hardware also measures temperature and humidity using a DHT sensor.

## Prerequisites

- ESP32 board
- DHT sensor (DHT11 or DHT22)
- Some jumper wires (actually just 3)

## Wiring

- Connect the DHT sensor's VCC pin to the ESP32's 3.3V pin
- Connect the DHT sensor's GND pin to the ESP32's GND pin
- Connect the DHT sensor's Data pin to the ESP32's (default is GPIO 4, can be changed in the code)

## Configuration

Before uploading the code to the ESP32, you need to create a `secrets.ini` file in the root directory of the ESP32. Take a look at the `secrets.ini.example` file for reference. The file should contain the following information:

```
[secrets]
wifi_ssid = your_wifi_ssid
wifi_pass = your_wifi_password
server_url = http://your.server.url/endpoint
```

## Image

![TrailSense Hardware](/docs/hardware.jpeg)

Commit message:

docs: explain randomized mac adresses

hardware/esp32/README.md, after:

# TrailSense - Hardware Code

This part of the codebase contains all of the code that is necessary to measure the amount of users that access a specific trail.
To do this both WiFi Probe Request Sniffing and BLE Advertisement Scanning is being used for crowd counting. The hardware also measures temperature and humidity using a DHT sensor.

## Prerequisites

- ESP32 board
- DHT sensor (DHT11 or DHT22)
- Some jumper wires (actually just 3)

## Wiring

- Connect the DHT sensor's VCC pin to the ESP32's 3.3V pin
- Connect the DHT sensor's GND pin to the ESP32's GND pin
- Connect the DHT sensor's Data pin to the ESP32's (default is GPIO 4, can be changed in the code)

## Configuration

Before uploading the code to the ESP32, you need to create a `secrets.ini` file in the root directory of the ESP32. Take a look at the `secrets.ini.example` file for reference. The file should contain the following information:

```
[secrets]
wifi_ssid = your_wifi_ssid
wifi_pass = your_wifi_password
server_url = http://your.server.url/endpoint
```

## Info

### Randomized MAC Addresses

To improve accuracy, the ESP32 counts only randomized MAC addresses. Most modern devices use a randomized MAC when broadcasting Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) signals. You can spot these by checking the second hexadecimal digit of the first octet in the address. If that digit is 2, 6, A, or E, the “locally administered” bit is set, meaning the MAC address is randomized rather than factory-assigned.

In short: when the second character of a MAC address is 2, 6, A, or E, it’s a randomized address.

## Image

![TrailSense Hardware](/docs/hardware.jpeg)
